feat: [Concept Entry] Git Checkout (#5748) (#5769)
Codecademy/docs: content/git/concepts/checkout/checkout.md

---
Title: 'Checkout'
Description: 'The git checkout command switches branches or restores files in the working directory to a specific state.'
Subjects: 
  - 'Bash/Shell'
  - 'Developer Tools'
Tags:
  - 'Git'
  - 'GitHub'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-the-command-line'
  - 'learn-git'

>   - 'learn-github-best-practices'

Author: Ok, thanks for the report. However, I did not find any reference or link to the catalog-content guide details in the concept entry template, content standards or markdown style guide written in the issue. The only thing I found is this but is not well specified:

<img width="1061" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-08 alle 22 43 06" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3d48fca0-b24d-4449-bdac-9655c2a16655">

---

The git **`checkout`** command switches, create and restore branches in the working directory to a specific state. 

> It is also possible to checkout to a specific commit without changing branches.

Reviewer: We can rewrite this for better clarity as follows:

```suggestion
The `git checkout` command also allows switching to a specific commit without changing branches.
```

## Syntax

Checkout with branches:
```pseudo
git checkout [options] <branch-name>
```
Checkout with a specific commit:
```pseudo
git checkout <commit-hash>
```
## Switch to an existing branch

The following command will switch to an already existing branch, created previously with the [git branch](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/branch) command:
```pseudo
git checkout existing-branch
```
Please, note that from Git 2.23, the new specific `git switch` command has been introduced to switch branches, making it clearer and safer than `git checkout` because it avoids the ambiguity of the latter's multi-purpose nature:

> ```pseudo
> git switch existing-branch
> ```

Reviewer: We can skip `the syntax for `git switch` here, as it might get confusing. ``git switch` will eventually have its own entry,` and this can be covered there.

```suggestion
```

## Create and switch to a new branch

It is possible to create and switch to a new branch with a single command, using the `-b` option:
```pseudo
git checkout -b new-branch
```

> or, alternatively, from Git 2.23:
> ```pseudo
> git switch -c new-branch
> ```

Reviewer: We should not explain too much about `git switch` here as it might get confusing, `git switch` will have it's own entry in sometime and this can be covered there.

```suggestion
```

## Restore a file from a specific commit

Restore a file from a specific commit using its hash:
```pseudo
git checkout <commit-hash> -- example.txt
```

> Please, note that from Git 2.23, the new specific `git restore` command has been introduced to restore files from a specific commit:
> ```pseudo
> git restore --source <commit-hash> -- example.txt
> ```

Reviewer: We should again avoid this, as it goes a little off-topic from `git checkout`.

```suggestion
```

Author: I understand, I will remove this part

## Examine a Previous Commit
Temporarily move to a specific commit without changing branches. This status is called `detached HEAD state`:
```pseudo
git checkout <commit-hash>
```

> The detached HEAD state allow to:

Reviewer: Incorrect verb form. "Allow" should be "allows" to match the singular subject "state."

```suggestion
The detached HEAD state allows to:
```

- Examine the state of the repository at that specified commit.

> - Create new branches if the develop needs to start from that point.

Reviewer: There's possibly a typo here, not sure if you meant `development` or `developer` here. Please check -

```suggestion
- Create new branches if the developer needs to start from that point.
```

> - Any code changes on this state will not be associated with any existing branch unless one is created.

Reviewer: We can rewrite this for a better understanding as follows:

```suggestion
- Any code changes made in this state will not be associated with any existing branch unless a new branch is created.
```
